Hi everyone, thank you for joining the
video today. Today we are going to see a
live demo about QS workflow LLM council
uh experiment. So before that let me
give you a high level context before you
uh see the demo. It's important to
understand the context what we are going
to do. So let me switch the screen.
Okay. Uh I think I have posted a demo
like a short demo before but I have uh
done some few changes here. I have added
stage zero and stage six here. So just
to simulate a real workflow. Okay. So
one thing I wanted to notice. Okay. I
wanted to tell you uh this this is the
demos guys are the general framing.
Okay. Every companies they might have
some different different in between
stages and tasks. Okay. So this is the
highle framing. So this is the aonus
step right. Don't worry if you have
another like a simple steps in between
right domain related. We will uh discuss
that later as a stage two. Okay. So we
are not going to discuss anything about
output discussions, right? Is that
correct or uh how does the output look
like? Is it validated or something like
that? That's not the goal here. The goal
is to understand we can do the
automation. Okay, that's how it works.
As a stage two, we will uh see the AI
output analysis deep dive. Okay. So now
before in my uh demo what I have done is
from stage one to stage five. So one of
the senior QS uh has publicly commented
that some of the comments uh I will show
you uh
here. So then uh in my video in my demo
that he said you can't prepare a BOQ
purely from BIM. The model is never
complete. So uh if you look at this one
so from stage one to stage two from BOQ
uh right BIM 3D input file IFC file we
are going to get the BOQ so he's saying
you can't purely get the BOQ from the
BIM right there are pre-checks and all
those things right so that's what again
we are just showing as a stage one the
AI automation okay not deep dive as an
enterprise AI production grade workflow
right that's a stage two so for his
questions right there is a model
currency check is there right domain
people they know okay see when was the
model last updated tailload status right
model correctly those are the things
there are several things you need to
check okay so that's the stage one stage
zero then we have a 3D beam model uh IFC
extension file with us. I'm going to
show you from there we are going to
extract BOQ
and then from the BOQ as normally we do
at office right we may have some errors
if there is a human does or senior Q or
junior QS there may be some errors it
will go to the officer senior Qers
project manager commercial manager and
then they will review they will send you
back okay these are the errors these are
the mistakes that you have done right
rectify and uh give it back something
like that there's a discussion going on
then finally you will get good output.
Okay. So that's the thing we are going
to do with the AI that we are call it as
a LLM council large language model
council. We are going to use like three
separate AIs like your office to do two
three different uh works parallelly for
the BQ and then we are going to give it
to another AI. He will act like your
project manager. We call it as a
chairman because it's we are calling as
LLM council. Then the chairman will
decide uh by looking at your all three
AI's response and then from there uh he
will uh the chairman will build the risk
report register plus quantitative risk
analysis also stage six also I have
added just to simulate like a real
workflow. Okay.
So now this is a high level guys. So
model currency check we have a 3D input
file. From there we are going to get the
uh BOQ. The BOQ we are going to send it
to three AIS to work in a three areas
quantitative quantity audit benchmark
and contract analysis and then uh those
three responses we are going to give it
to chairman to uh get a final decision
uh call and then he will make a report
with that report uh we are going to ask
the chairman uh to build the risk report
plus register and also from their QR
risk register. Okay, these are the stage
six simulation of your QS workflow. Now
I hope you understand this one. Let me
quickly show you this uh questions
again. One, you can't prepare a B purely
from BIM. The model is never complete.
He is correct. Okay. So now again we are
going to uh discuss the aonus only not
deep dive on the real workflow right
it's depend on the companies to
companies we can only build a highle
framing but based on your company or
based on your like a structure workflow
we can justify or adjust later okay
beam models in real projects are never
100% update even the middle east
completely true right that's exactly why
stage zero is exist okay model currency
before any extraction runs the script
checks right model data I will show you
in the script okay we can include in the
script to check all those things like lo
level MEP status design phrase all of
that right domain people they know but
don't worry about uh these kind of
things at this stage that's a stage two
how do you proper risk analysis using
just a BQ risk analysis from a BOQ it's
a standard QS practice guys right the
demo goes further it's generated a QR
ready register with min ML write MX cost
columns there are three uh there are the
P3 inputs from Monte Carlo simulation in
at risk O primara risk analysis right
that's the uh stage six okay so because
I have added step zero in stage six at
the uh start and at the end just to
simulate uh your current workflow right
so now you have understood now let's
start with the experiment ment that's we
are going to do what I'm going to show
you is right I'm going to show you the
3D file then from the 3D file I'm going
to run a script then it will
automatically create extract the BOQ the
BOQ I'm going to give you to this three
AI and then chairman will do all those
things I hope you understand the context
if you don't just pause the video go
back and understand uh to move to the
next phase okay now with that
understanding I want you to
focus on this uh folder. Okay, I have a
folder directory called LLM console
demo. Right here you will see only two
files I have. One is the C uh like a 3D
BIM model file and the Python file.
Right? That's all. There is no BOQ Excel
here. You will see within 20 30 seconds
the BOQ will get written here. Okay. So
before that, let me show you uh the
let me show you the 3D file I'm going to
use. Guys, I don't have a uh Revit uh uh
account setup, guys. I'm going to show
you in the 3D viewer.net. You can uh
import the uhc files uh here.
So then this file guys uh this is the 3D
uh like a
input uh that I'm going to use, right? I
let me show you
sometimes system is slow guys there are
the several softares is running here and
there so be with me uh and then here uh
what I'm going to
show you is my IFC file is here only two
files are there this a sample uh file
guys I'm using right uh these are the
seven story 1 2 3 4 5 6 seven story uh
like seven floor building right windows
and all those things like all properties
like geometry dimensions all those
things are like metadata is there okay
from here we I'm going to get the bo
right see this is the input file guys
doc file I'm going to close this one
right now you have understood where is
the IFC 3D input is there right there is
no bo here now I'm going to do a simple
uh
uh run here only one run Okay. To get
the bo. Okay. You will see sometimes
system is slow. Just bear with me.
Okay. So you now see this is the 3D
input I have shown you. There is no BOQ
here in this folder. When I hit run,
right,
the model currency checks will uh
happen, right? And then the BOQ will get
returned. See, I think it's a fine
second. Okay, I'm going to show you the
autobio here. All things are done,
right? Uh people who are interested in
domain, you can like check. Okay. Uh
state model currency check. Okay. When
is the file updated, IFC created, all
the organization, we can like a
parameterize later for a real project
that's I'm showing you that it can do
everything guys. Level two right LOD
checks right MEP model checks design
free status right metadata confirmed all
those things that will check okay then
see there are warnings curtain ball not
modeled must be added by QS okay windows
not modeled must be added by QS ME
sections not extracted right MEP not
modeled so those are the issues it will
flag okay
from the 3D extraction completed right
this is the BOQ incomplete guys right So
it can have errors. Okay, that's why we
are building LLM council like our real
simulation of the workflow missing
section all the and then B okay finally
saved okay with that uh informations. So
let me open the now let me close this
one. We don't need that anymore within
20 seconds you get the autob here. Okay.
From the 3D uh sevenstory
uh
building beam model, right? You will see
the autobio prepared within 20 seconds.
So, it's opening now.
Right. See guys, 20 seconds. I run a
simple Python script from a 3D input. I
got the BQ. Okay. So let's assume it may
have some errors. Okay. Quantity rate
amount. It may have errors. Right? A I
can make some errors. We can see later.
Right? These see all QA flags are there.
What sense like Windows not model this
blah blah all those things are there. So
now this is the BOQ 20 seconds we
extracted from uh 3D. Then because of
this assumption we are going to build a
LLM council to carefully review and then
finally give it to a chairman an AI and
then from there we will do it. Okay. So
that will flag every stage and then try
to minimize all the errors and then
finally output will be great uh when we
are using like a count if you use like a
one AI it may
limit to its capability. Okay, that's
why we are giving three three uh three
four five AIS to review and then all
those responses we'll give it to the
chairman. Okay, so now you have you know
bill of quantities. Now here let me
close this one. Okay, so now
uh up to this level we have completed.
Okay, model currency check we have done
uh 3D model uh input you have seen and
then autob has been done within 20
seconds. Okay, stage two done. Now I'm
moving to stage three. Okay. So what I'm
going to do is for GPT4 this is from
OpenAI, Gemini from Google, Clo from
anthropic. I'm going to give three works
using this BQ. Okay. So now
uh
these are the prompts guys I'm going to
use. Okay, I already prepared uh people
who needs just comment it out and then I
can uh send you right. This is for the
uh GPT. Okay, you are a senior quantity.
Review the uploaded. There are three
works I'm going to we are not going to
deep dive in this one. The idea is that
how AI works. Okay, not deep dive on the
output and the prompts or something like
that. Okay, it's a real simulation. And
then I'm copy this one. The first one.
This is the LLM council guys. Uh it's
working for us. Okay. So I'm going to
give the bo file first. System may slow
guys but be with me. So I'm going to
give the boke file right. and then it's
attached then I'm going to give his work
okay you are a senior quantity sur
review the uploaded bo for an alan mixed
use development cutter perform a
detailed quantity audit okay that's the
job I have given right there are some
other informations let's hit run okay
let him do the work and then now in the
council I'm moving to Google Gemini so
I'm going to give him another work
okay now GP CPT will act like a senior
quantity saver. Gemini will act like a
cost consultant specialized. Okay. So
then I have copied then here also I'm
going to give the BOQ
for the Google
right let it get attached
and then I'm going to give him the work
as well. You are a senior cost analy
using the GFA benchmark rate a blah blah
all those things estimate expected.
another work. Okay. So, let the Gemini
do the work and then in the council we
have Claude also. I'm going to give him
another work parallelly. Everyone will
do parallelly. Okay. So, see guys, you
need to understand one point
acceleration of your work right nothing
else now at the moment accurate like
deep analysis output analysis whether
it's right or wrong second stage but see
the acceleration. Okay. So this is the
third work uh cloud will do for us. So
let me give the BOQ as well.
So sometimes system may slow guys there
are several uh tabs and my recording
software is also going on but just stay
with me. I hope I wanted to understand
the entire uh workflow. Stay with the
video. Okay. So now
I'm going to you are a fidic contract
specialist. There are three words guys I
have given proving the B before tender
issue identify all correct level risk
blah blah. Okay. So then now our council
is working for us. Okay. This is the
chairman.
So
GPD works right
output has created
Gemini works
output has done. See how fast we can do
our work guys. Okay. And then cloud is
also working now as a three task. Okay.
Now we have completed uh this stage
three. Now I am moving to stage four
guys. So what I'm going to do is in the
stage four uh I am going to give okay
I am going to give another prompt okay
stay with me and
look at carefully okay this is for the
chairman right so let me copy that and
then paste it uh somewhere in the word
document right so let me zoom in then
you can clearly understand okay so here
guys you are the chairman of an AIQS
review council. Below are the three
independent expert reviews from GPT
Gemini code of the same BOQ for Alryan
mixed use development DHA produced by
GPT4 Gemini and Clude respectively. You
also know that all all three reviews
missed preliminaries adequacy
professional sums unit rate there are
all these things and then the closes
review one I'm going to give here review
two here give review three here and then
produce the final definitive risk report
for the project director formal format
exactly as follows okay executive
summary three sentence top five risk
item blah blah okay now I'm going
paste the output here. Let me go to the
console.
Right. Let me copy this one.
Our GPT.
Let me copy this one. Okay.
Just copy this one. What uh GP has done
guys. and then uh before I'm giving it
to chairman right this is one thing okay
I'm going to copy
right so then I'm going to give the
Gemini review as well let me go here
and then
copy
and then I'm going to paste here this is
a review tool so to give it to chairman
Guys, I'm preparing the prompt. Okay,
so let it uh finish. Okay, that's done.
And then review three from code.
Okay, so then uh right
clude is very powerful guys. So done. So
then
I'm going to give the three. Okay, so
three AIS independently it works and it
uh gives the output, right? And then
uh
our
uh chairman's prompt is ready now. Okay,
chairman's prompt is ready. What I'm
going to do is I'm going to delete this
one and then I'm going to cop select all
copy and then this is the chairman guys.
This is the chairman. Let me attach the
bo as well for his reference.
for his reference
and then guys
I'm going to
uh give the prompt as well right
so let me uh yeah prompt as well right
now chairman someone will do the work.
So we don't need this uh tabs anymore
guys. I'm going to close it just to
reduce the workload. Okay. So here let
me close that one. Right. This is our
chairman. Now chairman is working. Okay.
So here what the chairman will do. So
now you see the three model currency
check model from there within 20 seconds
we extract the BQ. Then we build the LLM
council to work all those things from
BOQ. Then we get all the responses and
then we instruct the chairman to
uh build the executive summary and then
we are going to tell uh to build the
risk report and then QR also at the now
chairman is doing stage four now.
So once the stage four is done
guys this is what we are going to tell
risk register right
convert the report about into formal
risk table with the these exact columns
right don't worry about the details in
detail about in with regards to domain
we are not discussing that one I want to
understand the workflow automation okay
so now now let's see the chairman's work
chairman is working right because I have
given the BOQ and then I have given all
of the uh three AI work right so he's
reviewing it he's go to the BOQ file
right
and then this report will be ready uh in
a minute okay
so while it's working guys right
so then uh
this uh uh information I wanted to
uh show you. So this is the highlight
guys, right? LLM Council about this
video. Okay, that's the good.
See LLM Council guys, three real AIs,
three browser types, three perspectives,
GB4, Gemini, clude, quantity, quantity
audit, check every line item against
expected range, right?
benchmark and completeness float
contract and regal legal risk. Right?
Expect this output from here. Expect
this output from here. Check this out
from here. Okay?
Right? This is what we have done on
stage four.
Right? And chairman synthesis risk
report risk register. Okay.
So for his uh concern like one of the
senior cues has pushed back. So we are
addressing all those things right you
can't prepare a bo purely from BIM is
correct but I have demonstrated it okay
model currency check BM models are BIM
models are never 100% updated that's
true that's why we are having a stage
zero right in the real workflow how do
you do risk analysis from just a BQ
that's a standard methodology okay this
is not how real QS work happens okay
it's correct the demo shows the review
layer missing from the current workloads
not a replacement of costex oro manual
measurement it's That's what nobody has.
Okay. So, we have addressed all his
concerns. Okay. So, now guys everybody
will confuse. This is one thing that's
my next video. This is not production
grade yet. Okay. This is an aonous demo,
right? It's you call it as a
development. There are dev environment,
UA acceptance environment, production
environment. I'm going to release the
video hopefully tomorrow day after
tomorrow. Please subscribe the channel.
Stay with me. Follow my Facebook page.
you will get notifications right so that
you will get understand now for a moment
right let me brief uh you not production
grade yet means this workflow guys when
we put it to an enterprise level in your
company to work there are other
technical things like business
side works are there to validate end to
end right there are testing is there all
those things are there don't go to that
level at the moment at the moment right
stage one clearly a bonus you are here
this demo Okay, stage two is the real
experiment guys. Use it on a real work.
This BQ is correct. This amount is
correct, right? This risk is correct,
right? All the workflows are covered.
All those that's a stage two. We are
moving uh maybe uh very soon. Okay. Once
once we complete the uh videos, we can
move to experiment. Stage three is the
production grade guys. Once we
experiment and then we validate this AI
and the output works technically plus uh
business then
we are fine to productionize the models
right to work in the that's a uh
different okay so now let me see still
chairman is working right chairman has
built the
uh risk report okay you will see the
risk report
there is a formatting issue like report
is done. So now I'm going to give him
another work
as the chairman because chairman has got
the all the knowledge. Now convert this
risk report above into a formal risk
register table. Okay, let me hit that
one.
Okay, then I can uh copy to Excel.
Right.
And then after that one
QR risk register quantity risk analysis
right that's also we can build from here
right stage six once he complete I'm
going to instruct him chairman to build
that one as well right it will take guys
to do all those things I think maximum
10 to 20 minutes right entire month on
month work teams can be uh automated
okay that's the message I wanted to give
you right AI is there AI is coming AI
disruption is in all domains okay so now
we have to get ready for that one people
who criticize AI they are also using AI
and criticize okay so don't worry about
the criticisms conversations we need to
welcome the conversations only uh
productive healthy conversations okay we
can learn together we are all our
students no one uh uh right knows
everything okay we are win- to- win
situation so you guys are domain expert
I am sharing my AI knowledge you will uh
bring your conversation from the domain
we can build together we can build
together right and a nice uh product
okay that's the goal so still it's
working uh to build the uh risk report a
formal risk register from uh risk report
guys let it run for a while until he
finishes this.
So guys, I wanted to show you the one
more
thing.
So guys, see we are the QS industry
today. Okay, the measurement problem is
solved. The review problem is not. Okay,
so LLM council guys, nobody's using it.
Okay, current workflow, right? BIM model
created in Revit right post X Revit QS
validates missing items edited manually
EBO key issued for tender right yeah it
breaks down sometimes for this level
model is never 100% correct okay LOD
gaps are there extraction only captures
what was modeled right if you don't
model the ME or something it won't
capture okay that is not there so we
need to flag that one as well time
pressure right maybe other project
delays right there are deadlines whole
section M under pressure okay contract
condition reality so these These are the
like a areas that we need to identify uh
using AI guys. So now
risk register has been done. See
this is huge guys.
See if you want to build this kind of
register how long it will take. Okay we
are not going to look into that deeply
but see and then now I'm going to give
the fixed work. Okay. Now convert the
risk reportable into a formal Q ready
risk register guys. I am addressing his
final concern also.
He is a deeply a domain expert guy who
commented that one is absolutely
correct. Okay. So but here stage one is
the onus. We are not going to deep dive
into the output analysis whether this
line is correct. This is that's the
stage two guys. Okay. Don't confuse.
So now by at this stage we are in stage
six. Okay. So we have done the model
currency check. We have seen the 3D
output. We have seen within 20 seconds
auto BOQ extractions. Then we build a
LLM council to work independent
independently and parallelly. Then we
get all the works and then give it to a
chairman AI to review and build the risk
register. And then from the risk
register he want to build the formal QR
risk register as well. Okay. I have I
don't know I have spent around 10 to 15
minutes to entirely work on this one.
Right. So finally all the outputs are
ready. Okay. Risk register that Excel
this Excel all of those beautiful BQ all
of them are ready. Okay. All you need to
do is to sharp your domain skills.
Number one. Second things understanding
AI as a system.
If you close these two depths, you are
pretty good
to face the AI disruption. Let me
quickly uh show you this one uh the
final QR risk register and then we are
wind up. Okay. So that's the LLM council
uh automation video today. So the idea
is guys
this part uh stage three like our real
office simulations. Okay.
Now the QR is razor done. Here is the
key data summary. Okay.
So see guys you will work like all these
six stages like two to three months like
you can do it in 20 minutes and then you
can take another two days to review it
done. See
all those things are there QR register.
Okay guys, so I hope you understand the
highle flow how AI can accelerate your
work. Okay, not too much about the
output, the correctness, right? The
accuracy. That's the stage two guys.
Okay, any questions please put it in the
comment. I'll try to address it. If
there is anything I want to add also
just uh put it as a conversation, right?
I will make sure I will address it.
Okay, thank you for watching the video.
We'll see you on the next video. If you
like it, please subscribe the channel.
Please follow my Facebook page so you
won't be get lost. Thank you.